hello everyone my name is Jay I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers at e2 language
in this live class I'm going to talk to
you about the five of IELTS essay
question types and I'm going to show you
what what each of them looks like so on
test day there will be no surprises for
you so there are five possible essay
question types
there's problem-solution double question
agree disagree discuss both views and
advantages disadvantages now I tell a
little lie because they're faithfully
the five main ones but there's also the
possibility of two more where you have
to give your opinion let me show you
what I mean here so here's the five but
number four you may get one that says
discuss both views and give your opinion
and number five is discussed the
advantages disadvantages and give your
opinion so really there are five main
ones but there are seven possibilities
on test day that's a lot if you have not
seen our other videos please watch them
wherever they are up there somewhere
because we go through them bit by bit
right let me show you what problems
solution essay looks like on test day
this is what you'll see on the paper in
front of you let's read it so every year
more and more students choose to study
online rather than attend classes on
campus what do you think are the causes
of this what solutions can you suggest
this is the problem solution essay
particularly because of these keywords
here in fact this part here will always
be the same so you're gonna have some
social issue or social problem here
you're gonna have to write a paragraph
about the causes and a paragraph about
the solutions cool fine fine fine
go away nope say that it collapsed
live-streaming double question what does
the double question look like well let's
have a look so every year more and more
students choose to study online rather
than attend classes on campus question
one why
the students prefer to study online
question 2 what can universities do to
attract students to study on campus of
course these will become your paragraphs
paragraph one paragraph two in an each
paragraph you will answer the direct
question fine agree/disagree looks like
this studying online is far more
effective than studying on campus to
what extent do you agree or disagree so
here we have a statement that is
one-sided one-sided this person is
saying that studying online is more
effective than studying on campus the
question prompt to what extent do you
agree or disagree now it's not asking
you do you agree or disagree in which
case you would say yes or no it's asking
you to what extent so you would say
something like I completely agree I
completely disagree i moderately agree I
moderately disagree I slightly agree I
slightly disagree so it's looking for
one of those adverbs so you can show a
nuanced opinion cool you've got to get
this right you have to understand what
these question types are and how to
answer them because they account
answering task achievement answering the
question properly accounts for 25% of
your mark it's significant and if you
misconstrue the question and you write
let's say you're looking at this one to
what extent do you agree or disagree and
you write about advantages disadvantages
you will potentially lose like 20
percent of your mark so you have to get
that right cool
let's get going so discuss both views
without your opinion will look like this
some people think studying on campus is
the most effective way to learn while
others believe that studying online is
more effective discuss both views so
your paragraph 1 will be about standing
on campus being effective your paragraph
2 will be here whoops
paragraph 2 studying online is more
effective so you need to discuss
views and opinion should you give your
opinion no absolutely not because all it
says is discuss both views but on test
day you might get this one which is
exactly the same but it just has this
little phrase at the end and give your
opinion in which case you would discuss
both sides and in the conclusion
you'd say which side you agree with okay
this is tricky stuff same here
advantages and disadvantages so the
question prompt might say some people
think studying online is more effective
than studying on campus what are the
advantages and disadvantages of studying
online in which case you would write one
paragraph about the advantages one
paragraph about the disadvantages and
absolutely no opinion however if you got
the advantages disadvantages plus give
your opinion like this one here you
would do the same thing you would
discuss the advantages in the first
paragraph disadvantages in the second
paragraph and give your own opinion
about which one is best in the
conclusion you would say which one is
best give you you would choose a side in
other words and it also might look like
this the question prompt might say
something like do you think the
advantages of studying online outweigh
the disadvantages this one you can do
discuss both sides but in the end you
have to choose whether you think the
advantages outweigh the disadvantages so
you have to give your opinion as well
cool that's the end of that so as you
can see there are five main question
types plus two additional ones where you
have to give your opinion as well as you
can see each question type requires a
similar yet certain structure if you're
aiming for a nine then you need to
follow a certain structure if you're
aiming for a nine you might need
feedback so do check out e to language
good time to cough e to language calm
cool thanks for watching I hope that was
helpful
la la la la what do I do now better turn
this off